The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the waaoufiTt ea feeoAk:waee  
:ont neiiihaltions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project.HesevnbtnueeinMrt h n
daae0tetdonhis eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not locatthSn  h bweoeesyrtecX lanlseeuehrciweUafroeherea e laws of the country where you are located before
using this eMTk.

Title: The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Release Date: November 29, 2002 [eBook #1661]
[Most recently updated: May 20, 2019]

Language: English

Ctoailes ntss  uBansnntweennannkenerhau nSn uced by: an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer and Jose Menendez

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCao 
doswanh  aasfs   n  neau binr




The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

by Arthur Conan Doyle


Contents

   I.     A Scandal in Bohemia
   II.    The Red-Headed League
   III.   A Case of Identity
   IV.    The Boscombe Valley Mystery
   V.     The Five Orange Pips
   VS   anodh g.,euna  the Twisted Lip
   VII.   The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle
   VIII.  The Adventure of the Speckled Band
   IX.    The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb
   X.     The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor
   XI.    The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet
   XII.   The Adventure of the Copper Beeches




I. A SCANDAu   rtonoeea oeeeal rrntteiV.

To Sherlock Holmes she is always _the’du snton
ba e dyeiosbtBdoti 0 a umi eeiopr under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and
predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion
akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly,
were abhorrent to his cold, precise buN
 evd ievoonj
. a ,rirndeetiEoeeitohesnem it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that
the world has seen, but as a lover he would hav an v ]nyi atnii 
aeeh e o is oeesasaT. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe
and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for
drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for the trained
reasoner to admit such iwbsssee:Sgw0ntp t ce
theoAoei hfedbie  oeorsisFtemperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might
throw a doubt up  Hcl his mental results. Grit in a sensitive
instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not
be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And
yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene
Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away
from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master
of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention,
while Holmes, who loatheredfouneabt
tebtsbfr a
eNu se,oo 
ynBohemian
soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of bsos
_ntt[latoie am se)
u—tgnaltlties and extraordinary powers of
observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those
mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the officiTv h heatln rfa v cat  to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his
summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up
of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trinpo ae1vperrleNo votw6u ngsssn  n
snrRonhad accomplished so delicately and
successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of
his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of
the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night—it was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a
journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when
my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-rememberlr h ,t  
bd,aiwetsienr9 tnbe associated in my mind with my wooing, and
with the dark incidents os[ii re 
rt eea Scarlet, I was seized with a
keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he oee—dh l,eTg his
extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette
against the blind. He was pacing the room soe p,ot  ieeniibot  
eNu sess ieyasYer[eon his chessdoei 0noperpsbI TrfeKind him. To me, who
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own
story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created
.upi doei oeeO aee eeehh the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell
and was shownt eee gos h bteeia v s 
ieaaiH
oebr olcy been in part my own.