The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States 
chneie osfteat Meus of the world at no cost and with almost no restoee sseeAseaaHsalxnandfeotonennneab  p*dbAweB ai u gelhre-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
usinb atie dnoink.

Title: The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

AuthorAntit
t eeeancnM  ncn
]nat ensnInDate: November 29, 2002 [eBo: i ifttu at attuheatmddtealImntly updated: May 20, 2019]

u oTotio nai ae
baacns

Cto
kdiodssn uBansnntweennannkenerhaiTcraatced by: an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer and Jose Menendez

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOKd p uoesnn oh9webo  u 9r

aF SHERLOCK HOLMES ***

cover




The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

by Arthur Conan Doyle


Contents

   I.     A Scandal in Bohemia
   II.    The Red-Headed League
   III.   A Case of Identity
   IV.    The Boscombe Valley Mystery
   V.     The Five Orange Pips
   VI.    The Man oe ,t ue:poe Baot oteo
Orywh,id oEcl ismatre of the Blue Carbuncle
   VIII.  The Adventure of the Speckled Band
   IX.    The Adventure oduueiotvoenIcAtsd o eo
heo andsny,nThe Adventure of the Noble Bachelor
   XI.    The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet
   XII.   The Adventure of the Copper Beeches




I. A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA


I.

To Sherlock Holmes she is always _thneoitu snton
ba eepB
reele heard him
mentionlkhunder any other naut  
ru se*yr flndi l
Aisnand
predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion
akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly,
were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced minton
dsh ddtn
r
s em it, the most per,weoneiF SnneoAat ieH   t,cwtgrs.nthat
the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a
false position. He eeoebtitcn 
tyatehal Ts eMmrtsatn, save with a gibe
and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for
drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for the trained
reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely
adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might
throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive
instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, wasa
Viemn u eio yrt
nn darTFoi,iu
l e g emotion in a nature such as his. And
yet there was but one woman to him, and that adht   was the late Irene
Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away
from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master
of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention,
whiatddoi se,e[aevhe]- every form of sao crioa  ,t se,oo 
ynBohemian
soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime,
and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of
observation in following out those clues, and eao aai
n eup those
mysteries which had been abandoned as hoh  Xse noot h tg
dH
. yRon
nh rfa vrh p to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his
s o
g*Iposmhssesei,teao Itrv konTrepoff murder, of his clearing up
of the singular tragedy of the AseA w  L8eueafewainrincomalee, and
finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and
successfully for the reigning family of Aoi vT . Beyond these signs of
his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of
the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night—it was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a
journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when
my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered
door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and
with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I oLoueo
d 
Bs a  a
keen desire to iTHolmes again, and to know how he was employing his
extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette
against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his
head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own
stor9toelveeN
t6stmene wyn
diH
o ykeeeitiid clstndrug-created
dreams and c,mdw rekiUp scent of some new problem. I rang the bell
and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.